the dynamics of desire and aversion lie
at the basis of stoic thought in regards
to how we relate to the world
a version means a strong dislike and dis
inclination towards something or someone
even though this might seem harmless it
can cause a lot of trouble in this video
I want to share stoic views on a version
and how to deal with it
I recently got a question from Frank
asked asking me can you make a video
about a version more specifically a
version to a certain person or group of
people I've been struggling with that
for the past couple of weeks and quote
well to understand the version we have
to understand it's polar opposite as
well which is desire because desire is a
form of a version and a version is a
form of desire
I think I'm throwing a bit of taoism in
there by saying that one opposite cannot
exist without the other and at both turn
around a spindle let's say that we
desire a million dollars and I mean that
we really crave for it the desire
automatically contains the aversion to
not having a million dollars which we
could translate into the aversion to
being poor by taking this position we
make our future happiness conditional if
we were able to obtain a million dollars
we're happy but if we fail we're
miserable this is a quote by
Epictetus about this mechanism remember
that following desire promises the
attainment of that which you are
desirous and a version promises the
avoiding that to which you are averse
however he who fails to obtain the
object of his desire is disappointed and
he who incurs the object of his aversion
ratchet and quote does this mean that we
should abolish desire and aversion no
that's too simplistic the stoats of old
recognized that human nature has a
tendency to desire things that are good
for us they call this phenomenon
orica uses things that are good for us
but not necessarily required for
reaching a state of eudaimonia are known
as preferred indifference examples of
these are wealth health and a good
reputation the opposite are this
preferred indifference examples of these
are death poverty and sickness so how
does this boil down to the aversion
towards a person or a group of people
being averse to a serial killer is
healthy because incurring a serial
killer probably isn't good for your
health and it would also be wise to be
averse to a
thief savage and any other person that
will do us harm since human nature wants
us to live it makes great sense that we
naturally avoid the people that pose a
threat so we might want to ask ourselves
the following questions are our
estimations about the people we are
averse to truly correct do the people we
are averse to truly pose a threat many
fears are irrational as Seneca wrote to
his friend Lucilius there are more
things Lucilius likely to frighten us
than there are to crush us we suffer
more often in imagination than in
reality and quote according to the
Stoics our capacity for rational
thinking is what sets us apart from
animals this means that fears even
though they might be ingrained in the
primitive part of our nature can be
overridden by rational thoughts
cognitive behavioral therapy is a way to
replace irrational thoughts by rational
thinking and this form of therapy
happens to have roots in stoicism let's
say you're averse to a group of people
because of prejudice is based on news
coverage in regards to that group we
have a tendency to think that all
members of that group are like that
which probably isn't true moreover we
only know this information for sure if
we know every single person of that
group similarly this applies to a single
person we might be averse to we might
have heard some rumors and formed an
image in our heads about this person
that does not correspond with reality
accordingly some things torment us more
than they ought some torment us before
they ought and some torment us when they
ought not to torment us at all we are in
the habit of exaggerating or imagining
or anticipating sorrow and quote the
trick is to challenge the thoughts we
have about these people that are
irrational and replace them with
thoughts that are rational instead of
thinking those people are bad and I
should avoid them you could think I
notice I'm averse to these people for
reason X&Y perhaps I should get to know
them better and experience for myself if
my aversion is
justified from the perspective of virtue
we could ask is it justified to be
averse to a certain group are my
thoughts about his group correct chances
are that the honest answer to these
questions is no and that by a version
based on irrationality we only cause
harm to ourselves and potentially to our
surroundings but what if the answer is
yes okay picture this
do you really want to give the object of
your aversion the power over your
happiness the problem with a version
that goes together with feelings like
hate disgust fear is death in most cases
you predominantly hurt yourself
resentment is like drinking poison and
waiting for the other person to die
curbing a version helps us to not waste
our time and energy on fear and hate
towards irrationally perceived evils
thus it's a good idea to approach the
mechanism of desire and aversion with
knowledge of good and evil virtue and
vice and preferred and dis preferred
indifference so I would say that if
you're certain that a group or person is
up to no good
I would loosen up the aversion by
developing a healthy detachment from
these people this doesn't mean that you
should be a pushover one of the SOIC
purchase is justice so if it's justified
to defend yourself against oppressors I
don't think that the Stoics would
disagree it's possible to address
certain problems without being attached
to them like removing an over boiling
pan from the gas burner without being
upset in this case you solve a problem
while keeping your cool which sounds
like a win-win situation to me or
perhaps even better you could try to be
compassionate which is often possible by
mutual understanding as Martin Luther
King jr. once said I choose love because
hate is too big a burden to bear thank
you for watching
[Music]